README.md, before:

PyOpia
===============================

A Python Ocean Particle Image Analysis toolbox

Current status:
------------
Under initial development. NOT 'RESEARCH READY'

Moving code from PySilCam

Building a structure for a standard processing pipline

Building a system for metadata and output files

Documentation:
------------
[https://pyopia.readthedocs.io](https://pyopia.readthedocs.io)

Development requirements for PyOpia:
------------
1) Allow nonfamiliar users to install and use PyOpia, and to contribute & commit code changes
2) Not hardware specific
3) Smaller dependency list than PySilCam -Eventual optional dependencies (e.g. for classification)
4) Can be imported by pysilcam or other hardware-specific tools
5) Work on a single-image basis (...primarily, with options for multiprocess to be considered later)
6) No use of settings/config files within the core code - pass arguments directly. Eventual use of settings/config files should be handled by high-level wrappers that provide arguments to functions.
7) Github workflows
8) Tests

Normal functions within PyOpia should:
------------
1) take inputs
2) return new outputs
3) don't modify state of input
4) minimum possible disc IO during processing

Contributions
-------------

We welcome additions and improvements to the code! We request that you follow a few guidelines. These are in place to make sure the code improves over time.

1. All code changes must be submitted as pull requests, either from a branch or a fork.
2. Good documentation of the code is needed for PyOpia to succeed and so please include up-to-date docstrings as you make changes, so that the auto-build on readthedocs is complete and useful for users. (A version of the new docs will complie when you make a pull request and a link to this can be found in the pull request checks)
3. All pull requests are required to pass all tests before merging. Please do not disable or remove tests just to make your branch pass the pull request.
4. All pull requests must be reviewed by a person. The benefits from code review are plenty, but we like to emphasise that code reviews help spreading the awarenes of code changes. Please note that code reviews should be a pleasant experience, so be plesant, polite and remember that there is a human being with good intentions on the other side of the screen.
5. All contributions are linted with flake8. We recommend that you run flake8 on your code while developing to fix any issues as you go. We recommend using autopep8 to autoformat your Python code (but please check the code behaviour is not affected by autoformatting before pushing). This makes flake8 happy, and makes it easier for us all to maintain a consistent and readable code base.

Installing
----------

Install [Python](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/#download)

A prompt such as is provided by the [miniforge installation](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/#download) may be used for the following:

Create a virtual environment using the environment.yml (will create an environment called pyopia)

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

to update, we recommend a forced re-install:

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml --force
```

(but you could also try this, which might be quicker but a less reliable form of updating):

```bash
conda env update --file environment.yml --prune
```

to activate:

```bash
conda activate pyopia
```

Test that it works with

```bash
python setup.py develop
```

Note that `pip install` or `python setup.py install` will probably cause you problems if you want to develop the code, and should only be used for deployment purposes.

License
-------

PyOpia is licensed under the BSD3 license. See LICENSE. All contributors should be recognised & aknowledged.

Commit message:

add test status of main branch to readme

README.md, after:

PyOpia
===============================

A Python Ocean Particle Image Analysis toolbox

Current status of main branch:
------------
[![Windows build and test](https://github.com/SINTEF/pyopia/actions/workflows/windows-build-and-test.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/SINTEF/pyopia/actions/workflows/windows-build-and-test.yml)


Under initial development. NOT 'RESEARCH READY'

Moving code from PySilCam

Building a structure for a standard processing pipline

Building a system for metadata and output files

Documentation:
------------
[https://pyopia.readthedocs.io](https://pyopia.readthedocs.io)

Development requirements for PyOpia:
------------
1) Allow nonfamiliar users to install and use PyOpia, and to contribute & commit code changes
2) Not hardware specific
3) Smaller dependency list than PySilCam -Eventual optional dependencies (e.g. for classification)
4) Can be imported by pysilcam or other hardware-specific tools
5) Work on a single-image basis (...primarily, with options for multiprocess to be considered later)
6) No use of settings/config files within the core code - pass arguments directly. Eventual use of settings/config files should be handled by high-level wrappers that provide arguments to functions.
7) Github workflows
8) Tests

Normal functions within PyOpia should:
------------
1) take inputs
2) return new outputs
3) don't modify state of input
4) minimum possible disc IO during processing

Contributions
-------------

We welcome additions and improvements to the code! We request that you follow a few guidelines. These are in place to make sure the code improves over time.

1. All code changes must be submitted as pull requests, either from a branch or a fork.
2. Good documentation of the code is needed for PyOpia to succeed and so please include up-to-date docstrings as you make changes, so that the auto-build on readthedocs is complete and useful for users. (A version of the new docs will complie when you make a pull request and a link to this can be found in the pull request checks)
3. All pull requests are required to pass all tests before merging. Please do not disable or remove tests just to make your branch pass the pull request.
4. All pull requests must be reviewed by a person. The benefits from code review are plenty, but we like to emphasise that code reviews help spreading the awarenes of code changes. Please note that code reviews should be a pleasant experience, so be plesant, polite and remember that there is a human being with good intentions on the other side of the screen.
5. All contributions are linted with flake8. We recommend that you run flake8 on your code while developing to fix any issues as you go. We recommend using autopep8 to autoformat your Python code (but please check the code behaviour is not affected by autoformatting before pushing). This makes flake8 happy, and makes it easier for us all to maintain a consistent and readable code base.

Installing
----------

Install [Python](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/#download)

A prompt such as is provided by the [miniforge installation](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/#download) may be used for the following:

Create a virtual environment using the environment.yml (will create an environment called pyopia)

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

to update, we recommend a forced re-install:

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml --force
```

(but you could also try this, which might be quicker but a less reliable form of updating):

```bash
conda env update --file environment.yml --prune
```

to activate:

```bash
conda activate pyopia
```

Test that it works with

```bash
python setup.py develop
```

Note that `pip install` or `python setup.py install` will probably cause you problems if you want to develop the code, and should only be used for deployment purposes.

License
-------

PyOpia is licensed under the BSD3 license. See LICENSE. All contributors should be recognised & aknowledged.
