docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. PyOpia documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Mar  8 16:57:04 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to PyOpia's documentation!
==================================

This is documentation, auto-generated by Sphinx, for the PyOpia Ocean Particle Image Analysis toolbox, hosted by `SINTEF Ocean <https://www.sintef.no/en/ocean/>`_, in collaboration with University of Plymouth, NTNU, The MBA, and National Oceanography Center (Southampton). We hope to encourage wider collaboration on analysis tools for ocean particles and welcome new contributors!

PyOpia started in Feb. 2022 as a 'spin-off' from elements of `PySilCam <https://github.com/SINTEF/PySilCam/wiki>`_ that could be relevant for other hardware and image types, including holography.

The code repository for PyOpia can be found `here <https://github.com/SINTEF/PyOpia/>`_.


Contents
==================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 10

   pyopia


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`

Commit message:

Holo (#21)
* add holo.py in instrument folder

* initial pipeline to get stats for a single image

* update Classify docstring

* extend silcam pipeline example to include optional inputs

* update classify example in docstring

* start to include h5 output in pipeline

* old docstrings dont support multiple returns. start fixing in silcam subpackage

* Update .gitignore

* add instrument to sphinx config

* add pgm to gitignore

* initial attempt at holo and silcam compatible pipelines

* example pipeline compatible with both holo and silcam

very simplified segmentation applied. I thought a lot about segmentation methods too (without committing anything here yet). Segmentation should be a separate step in the workflow rather than integrated in statextract.

* add pyopia.instrunent as package in setup.py

* drop find_packages and specify manually

* disable fail on warning

no longer import error warnings, so i think it should be fine to allow the build to pass anyway

* improve pipeline docs

* improve high-level documentation

* Update background.py

* Update README.md

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. PyOpia documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Mar  8 16:57:04 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to PyOpia's documentation!
==================================

This is documentation, auto-generated by Sphinx, for the PyOpia: Python Ocean Particle Image Analysis, hosted by `SINTEF Ocean <https://www.sintef.no/en/ocean/>`_, in collaboration with University of Plymouth, NTNU, The MBA, and National Oceanography Center (Southampton). We hope to encourage wider collaboration on analysis tools for ocean particles and welcome new contributors!

PyOpia started in Feb. 2022 as a 'spin-off' from elements of `PySilCam <https://github.com/SINTEF/PySilCam/wiki>`_ that could be relevant for other hardware and image types, including holography.

The code repository for PyOpia can be found `here <https://github.com/SINTEF/PyOpia/>`_.

Pipelines
==================================
PyOpia aims to provide a pipeline-based workflow as a standard for analysis of particle images in the ocean.
This pipeline should be consistent across different instruments (hardware), and therefore
has flexibility to adapt analysis steps to meet instrument-specific processing needs
(i.e. holographic reconstruction), while maintaining a traceable workflow that
can is attached as metadata to a standard output file (HDF5) that helps users follow FAIR data principles.

See :class:`pyopia.pipeline.Pipeline` for more details and examples of how to process images with PyOpia.

A function-based toolbox
==================================

PyOpia tools are organised into the following modules:

#. background correction (:mod:`pyopia.background`).
#. processing (:mod:`pyopia.process`).
#. statistical analysis (:mod:`pyopia.statistics`).
#. classification (:mod:`pyopia.classify`).
#. metadata & datafile formatting (:mod:`pyopia.io`).

You can combine these tools for exploring different analysis approaches (i.e. in notebooks).
We hope this can help more exploratory development and contributions to the PyOpia code.

If you are analysing data for publication, we recommend using the :class:`pyopia.pipeline.Pipeline` standard so that your analysis steps are documented and the output format is more easily shareable.

Contents
==================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 10

   pyopia


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
