docs/intro.md, before:

Welcome!
==================================

This is documentation for PyOPIA: Python Ocean Particle Image Analysis, hosted by [SINTEF Ocean](https://www.sintef.no/en/ocean/), in collaboration with University of Plymouth, NTNU, The MBA, George Washington University, and National Oceanography Center (Southampton). We hope to encourage wider collaboration on analysis tools for ocean particles and welcome new contributors!

PyOPIA started in Feb. 2022 as a 'spin-off' from elements of [PySilCam](https://github.com/SINTEF/PySilCam/wiki) that could be relevant for other hardware and image types, including holography.

The code repository for PyOPIA can be found [here](https://github.com/SINTEF/pyopia/).

Pipelines
==================================
PyOPIA aims to provide a pipeline-based workflow as a standard for analysis of particle images in the ocean.

This pipeline should be consistent across different instruments (hardware), and therefore has flexibility to adapt analysis steps to meet instrument-specific processing needs (i.e. holographic reconstruction), while maintaining a traceable workflow that is attached as metadata to a standard output file (HDF5) that helps users follow FAIR data principles.

See {class}`pyopia.pipeline.Pipeline` for more details and examples of how to process images with PyOPIA.

A function-based toolbox
==================================

PyOPIA tools are organised into the following modules:

* background correction {mod}`pyopia.background`.
* processing {mod}`pyopia.process`.
* statistical analysis {mod}`pyopia.statistics`.
* classification {mod}`pyopia.classify`.
* metadata & datafile formatting {mod}`pyopia.io`.

You can combine these tools for exploring different analysis approaches (i.e. in notebooks).
We hope this can help more exploratory development and contributions to the PyOPIA code.

If you are analysing data for publication, we recommend using the {class}`pyopia.pipeline.Pipeline` standard so that your analysis steps are documented and the output format is more easily shareable.

Full documentation for the code is [here](api)

Installing
==================================

Users are expected to be familiar with Python, and have [Python](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/#download), [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/). You can then install PyOPIA like this:

```
pip install pyopia
```

We would usually recommend installing within a virtual python environment, which you can read more about [here](https://jni.github.io/using-python-for-science/intro-to-environments.html).

If you want to use PyOPIA's Classificaiton module, you need to also install the extra classification dependencies, like this:

````
pip install pyopia[classification]
````

or (for Apple silicon)

```
pip install pyopia[classification-arm64]
```

Links to libraries PyOPIA uses
==================================

PyOPIA is a high-level tool that makes use of several open source libraries. Please see the list of libraries listed in the pyproject.toml file if you are interested in what is used.

Processing and plotting modeuls makes routine use of several functions provided by libraries including: [scikit-image](https://scikit-image.org/),
[numpy](https://numpy.org/), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/), [xarray](https://docs.xarray.dev), [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/),
[cmocean](https://matplotlib.org/cmocean/), [tensorflow](https://www.tensorflow.org/), and [keras](https://keras.io/).

Commit message:

Classifier debugging (#168)
* add step-by-step pipeline example notebook in docs

* add run_step helper function in pipeline module

* remove some prints from pipeline.

* fix install bug in mac classification test

* enable use of montage_maker directly from stats dataframe

* send imref to classifier so we use colour images. fix image scaling of imref in silcam imageprep

* remove color normalisation in background correction

* better handling of imbw when too many particles detected

* update readme for poetry classification install

* update installation instructions

docs/intro.md, after:

Welcome!
==================================

This is documentation for PyOPIA: Python Ocean Particle Image Analysis, hosted by [SINTEF Ocean](https://www.sintef.no/en/ocean/), in collaboration with University of Plymouth, NTNU, The MBA, George Washington University, and National Oceanography Center (Southampton). We hope to encourage wider collaboration on analysis tools for ocean particles and welcome new contributors!

PyOPIA started in Feb. 2022 as a 'spin-off' from elements of [PySilCam](https://github.com/SINTEF/PySilCam/wiki) that could be relevant for other hardware and image types, including holography.

The code repository for PyOPIA can be found [here](https://github.com/SINTEF/pyopia/).

Pipelines
==================================
PyOPIA aims to provide a pipeline-based workflow as a standard for analysis of particle images in the ocean.

This pipeline should be consistent across different instruments (hardware), and therefore has flexibility to adapt analysis steps to meet instrument-specific processing needs (i.e. holographic reconstruction), while maintaining a traceable workflow that is attached as metadata to a standard output file (HDF5) that helps users follow FAIR data principles.

See {class}`pyopia.pipeline.Pipeline` for more details and examples of how to process images with PyOPIA.

A function-based toolbox
==================================

PyOPIA tools are organised into the following modules:

* background correction {mod}`pyopia.background`.
* processing {mod}`pyopia.process`.
* statistical analysis {mod}`pyopia.statistics`.
* classification {mod}`pyopia.classify`.
* metadata & datafile formatting {mod}`pyopia.io`.

You can combine these tools for exploring different analysis approaches (i.e. in notebooks).
We hope this can help more exploratory development and contributions to the PyOPIA code.

If you are analysing data for publication, we recommend using the {class}`pyopia.pipeline.Pipeline` standard so that your analysis steps are documented and the output format is more easily shareable.

Full documentation for the code is [here](api)

Installing
==================================

Users are expected to be familiar with Python, and have [Python](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/#download) version 3.10, [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/). You can then install PyOPIA like this:

```
pip install pyopia
```

We would usually recommend installing within a virtual python environment, which you can read more about [here](https://jni.github.io/using-python-for-science/intro-to-environments.html).

If you want to use PyOPIA's Classificaiton module, you need to also install the extra classification dependencies, like this:

````
pip install pyopia[classification]
````

or (for Apple silicon)

```
pip install pyopia[classification-arm64]
```

If you would like to install a development environment, please refer to the instructions in the README on GitHub, [here](https://github.com/SINTEF/pyopia/blob/main/README.md)

Links to libraries PyOPIA uses
==================================

PyOPIA is a high-level tool that makes use of several open source libraries. Please see the list of libraries listed in the pyproject.toml file if you are interested in what is used.

Processing and plotting modeuls makes routine use of several functions provided by libraries including: [scikit-image](https://scikit-image.org/),
[numpy](https://numpy.org/), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/), [xarray](https://docs.xarray.dev), [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/),
[cmocean](https://matplotlib.org/cmocean/), [tensorflow](https://www.tensorflow.org/), and [keras](https://keras.io/).
